Update zika instructions (#147)
nextstrain/fauna: builds/ZIKA.md

# ZIKA Pipeline Notes

## Ingest data from NCBI GenBank

Navigate to the nextstrain/zika repository and [follow the instructions for ingest](https://github.com/nextstrain/zika/tree/persephone/ingest).

```
git clone https://github.com/nextstrain/zika.git
cd zika

> git checkout persephone

Reviewer: I'm out of the loop. What's `persephone` and why use it instead of the default branch?

Author: Good question! The reasoning was that the default branch doesn't include any ingest rules. Since we're still in the midst of [designing the golden path](https://github.com/nextstrain/pathogen-repo-template) but to meet the need to keep our [zika build](https://next.nextstrain.org/zika) up-to-date, I created a `persephone` branch to "live long enough to update the build" but will be replaced by the official path in the future. The `persephone` branch also includes indexing by "accession" instead of strain name which was a necessary divergence from the default branch.

This PR is documenting the "reality" of updating the build, but&mdash;I agree&mdash;should point at the default branch when the default branch includes `ingest` and subsequent build parameter modifications.

Reviewer: I see, thanks for the explanation. Was the latest update to [nextstrain.org/zika](https://nextstrain.org/zika) made using `persephone` or the default branch? If using `persephone`, I'd think to merge that into the default branch even if the golden path is not yet set in stone. Otherwise, what's seen at [github.com/nextstrain/zika](https://github.com/nextstrain/zika) would be outdated.

Author: The latest update was indeed using `persephone`, the old method (ViPR) doesn't work. The changes to ingest and phylogenetic are here:

* https://github.com/nextstrain/zika/compare/main...persephone

Feel free to glance through, I’m certainly willing to submit a PR but am certain it will encounter a block, given that some of the modifications overlap with an ongoing Dengue PR that is currently delayed and unmerged (https://github.com/nextstrain/dengue/pull/13). Additionally, there are specific changes related to zika, such as the inclusion of fauna-zika-data processing steps and the merging of USVI data. And given that some people might be pointed to zika as a “template for new pathogens”, it might be more prudent to cherry-pick generally accepted changes from `persephone` as smaller PRs later. (Open to suggestions on how to split these out.)

The current github.com/nextstrain/zika is outdated but so is the current github.com/nextstrain/dengue .  

You make good points! (And may yet be incorporated in subsequent PRs.) But I'd still scope this fauna PR as replacing the non-working ViPR-ingest documentation with some currently working zika pipeline documentation.

Reviewer 2: > I’m certainly willing to submit a persephone PR but am certain it will encounter a block

I'm sorry if the review process has been a hindrance to your work! I did not realize you were running builds off of branches. I would make a PR and merge it so that the default branch is not outdated. We can do post-merge reviews and incremental updates later. For reproducibility and keeping everyone on the same page, I think it's prudent that the production builds are made using the default branch.

Author: > given that some people might be pointed to zika as a “template for new pathogens”, it might be more prudent to cherry-pick generally accepted changes from persephone as smaller PRs later

I still think we can cherry-pick the `phylogenetic` modifications in smaller PRs later, the review process is fine as long as the live builds can be updated concurrently and those steps are documented somewhere. 

Could I at least merge this fauna PR? 

I can submit a `persephone` zika PR separately but don’t want it to be a pre-requisite to this PR. And if `persephone` is eventually merged, I'm happy to make the subsequent change to `builds/ZIKA.md` by basically deleting a few `persephone`s from link urls and removing a `git checkout` statement.

Reviewer 2: > Could I at least merge this fauna PR? This way we have appropriately documented the status quo?

Sure, I'm not against merging this. For future reference, I think it would be less likely to get out-of-sync and/or forgotten if documented within the zika repo itself.

cd ingest
nextstrain build .
```

This results in the files `results/metadata.tsv` and `results/sequences.fasta`

## Compress

```
zstd -T0 results/sequences.fasta
zstd -T0 results/metadata.tsv
```

This results in the files `results/sequences.fasta.zst` and `results/metadata.tsv.zst`.

## Upload data to s3

> Make sure environment variables for connecting to nextstrain remote are set.

Reviewer: Suggestion: make this a GitHub Markdown note, reword, and add a link to docs.

```suggestion
> [!NOTE]
> Make sure [authentication for the S3 remote](https://docs.nextstrain.org/projects/cli/en/stable/remotes/s3/#authentication) is configured.
```
